python-ezmlex
=============

Python package for lexical analysis of texts. This is another yet package for
the tokenization of strings. It supports various types of inputs, UTF-8
encoding and has conveniend iterator interface. 


FEATURES
--------

  - supports several types of input: python string objects, file objects,
    containers (e.g. list of strings) and iterable objects,
  - reads input in chunks of predefined size, chunk size is customizable,
  - maintains "bookmarking" information: recognized tokens are equipped with
    line index, column index and character offset information,
  - tokenization based on python regular expressions,
  - support for preliminary transformation of input string to a reduced
    alphabet,
  - "generalized lexical grammars", one may form tokens from lines of text
    instead of characters,

DOWNLOAD AND INSTALL
--------------------

You may download and unpack source tarball
    
        user@host:$ cd /tmp
        user@host:$ wget https://github.com/ptomulik/python-ezmlex/tarball/master -O python-ezmlex.tar.gz
        user@host:$ tar -xzf python-ezmlex.tar.gz

or clone the repository

        user@host:$ cd /tmp
        user@host:$ git clone git://github.com/ptomulik/python-ezmlex.git
       
To install ``python-ezmlex`` package, copy the ``ezmlex/`` directory to a
directory searched by python for packages/modules.


DOCUMENTATION
-------------

Developer's documentation may be generated by running

    user@host:$ scons api-doc
 
the generated documentation is placed in ``build/doc/api/``.


RUNNING TESTS
-------------

Unit tests may be ran with 

    user@host:$ scons unittest

from the top level source directory.

RUNNING EXAMPLES
----------------

There are several example scripts in ``examples`` subdir. To run one invoke

    user@host:$ PYTHONPATH='.' python examples/path/to/script.py

from the top level source directory.


LICENSE
-------

Copyright &copy; 2012 by Paweł Tomulik

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE
